third_party/fiat/README.md, before:

# Fiat

Some of the code in this directory is generated by
[Fiat](https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto) and thus these files are
licensed under the MIT license. (See LICENSE file.)

## Curve25519

To generate the field arithmetic procedures in `curve25519.c` from a fiat-crypto
checkout (as of `693d62c6fd7370bf71b8eb3b9a5825dfd071fcac`), run
`make src/Specific/solinas32_2e255m19_10limbs/femul.c` (replacing `femul` with
the desired field operation). The "source" file specifying the finite field and
referencing the desired implementation strategy is
`src/Specific/solinas32_2e255m19_10limbs/CurveParameters.v`, specifying roughly
"unsaturated arithmetic modulo 2^255-19 using 10 limbs of radix 2^25.5 in 32-bit
unsigned integers with a single carry chain and two wraparound carries" where
only the prime is considered normative and everything else is treated as
"compiler hints".

## P256

To generate the field arithmetic procedures in `p256.c` from a fiat-crypto
checkout, run
`make src/Specific/montgomery64_2e256m2e224p2e192p2e96m1_4limbs/femul.c`.
The corresponding "source" file is
`src/Specific/montgomery64_2e256m2e224p2e192p2e96m1_4limbs/CurveParameters.v`,
specifying roughly "64-bit saturated word-by-word Montgomery reduction modulo
2^256 - 2^224 + 2^192 + 2^96 - 1". Again, everything except for the prime is
untrusted. There is currently a known issue where `fesub.c` for p256 does not
manage to complete the build (specialization) within a week on Coq 8.7.0.
<https://github.com/JasonGross/fiat-crypto/tree/3e6851ddecaac70d0feb484a75360d57f6e41244/src/Specific/montgomery64_2e256m2e224p2e192p2e96m1_4limbs>
does manage to build that file, but the work on that branch was never finished
(the correctness proofs of implementation templates still apply, but the
now abandoned prototype specialization facilities there are unverified).

## Working With Fiat Crypto Field Arithmetic

The fiat-crypto readme <https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto#arithmetic-core>
contains an overview of the implementation templates followed by a tour of the
specialization machinery. It may be helpful to first read about the less messy
parts of the system from chapter 3 of <http://adam.chlipala.net/theses/andreser.pdf>.
There is work ongoing to replace the entire specialization mechanism with
something much more principled <https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto/projects/4>.

Commit message:

WIP Use 51-bit limbs from fiat-crypto in 64-bit.
Our 64-bit performance was much lower than it could have been, since we
weren't using the 64-bit multipliers. Fortunately, fiat-crypto is
awesome, so this is just a matter of synthesizing new code and
integration work.

TODO - cite benchmarks from workstation
TODO - update when https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto/issues/294 is
       resolved

Change-Id: Ic0c24d50b4ee2bbc408b94965e9d63319936107d

third_party/fiat/README.md, after:

# Fiat

Some of the code in this directory is generated by
[Fiat](https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto) and thus these files are
licensed under the MIT license. (See LICENSE file.)

## Curve25519

To generate the field arithmetic procedures in `curve25519.c` from a fiat-crypto
checkout (as of `f7b212b9075dc3cf323eeb05ab99788eb9094807`), run
`make src/Specific/solinas32_2e255m19_10limbs/femul.c` (replacing `femul` with
the desired field operation). The "source" file specifying the finite field and
referencing the desired implementation strategy is
`src/Specific/solinas32_2e255m19_10limbs/CurveParameters.v`, specifying roughly
"unsaturated arithmetic modulo 2^255-19 using 10 limbs of radix 2^25.5 in 32-bit
unsigned integers with a single carry chain and two wraparound carries" where
only the prime is considered normative and everything else is treated as
"compiler hints".

The 64-bit implementation uses 5 limbs of radix 2^51. It is found in
`src/Specific/solinas64_2e255m19_5limbs`.

## P256

To generate the field arithmetic procedures in `p256.c` from a fiat-crypto
checkout, run
`make src/Specific/montgomery64_2e256m2e224p2e192p2e96m1_4limbs/femul.c`.
The corresponding "source" file is
`src/Specific/montgomery64_2e256m2e224p2e192p2e96m1_4limbs/CurveParameters.v`,
specifying roughly "64-bit saturated word-by-word Montgomery reduction modulo
2^256 - 2^224 + 2^192 + 2^96 - 1". Again, everything except for the prime is
untrusted. There is currently a known issue where `fesub.c` for p256 does not
manage to complete the build (specialization) within a week on Coq 8.7.0.
<https://github.com/JasonGross/fiat-crypto/tree/3e6851ddecaac70d0feb484a75360d57f6e41244/src/Specific/montgomery64_2e256m2e224p2e192p2e96m1_4limbs>
does manage to build that file, but the work on that branch was never finished
(the correctness proofs of implementation templates still apply, but the
now abandoned prototype specialization facilities there are unverified).

## Working With Fiat Crypto Field Arithmetic

The fiat-crypto readme <https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto#arithmetic-core>
contains an overview of the implementation templates followed by a tour of the
specialization machinery. It may be helpful to first read about the less messy
parts of the system from chapter 3 of <http://adam.chlipala.net/theses/andreser.pdf>.
There is work ongoing to replace the entire specialization mechanism with
something much more principled <https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto/projects/4>.
