ssl/test/PORTING.md, before:

# Porting to Other Implementations

## Introduction

This document provides an overview of the test runner and how to
integrate it with other stacks.  So far we have it working with
BoringSSL and some incomplete integrations with NSS and OpenSSL.

Note that supporting non-BoringSSL implementations is a work in
progress and interfaces may change in the future. Consumers should pin
to a particular revision rather than using BoringSSL’s master branch
directly. As we gain experience with other implementations, we hope to
make further improvements to portability, so please contact
davidben@google.com and ekr@rtfm.com if implementing a new shim.


## Integration Architecture

The test runner integrates with the TLS stack under test through a
“shim”: a command line program which encapsulates the stack. By
default, the shim points to the BoringSSL shim in the same source
tree, but any program can be supplied via the `-shim-path` flag. The
runner opens up a server socket and provides the shim with a `-port`
argument that points to that socket. The shim always connects to the
runner as a TCP client even when acting as a TLS server. For DTLS,
there is a small framing layer that gives packet boundaries over
TCP. The shim can also pass a variety of command line arguments which
are used to configure the stack under test. These can be found at
`test_config.cc`.


The shim reports success by exiting with a `0` error code and failure by
reporting a non-zero error code and generally sending a textual error
value to stderr. Many of the tests expect specific error string (such
as `NO_SHARED_CIPHER`) that indicates what went wrong.


## Compatibility Issues

There are a number of situations in which the runner might succeed
with some tests and not others:

* Defects in the stack under test
* Features which haven’t yet been implemented
* Failure to implement one or more of the command line flags the runner uses with the shim
* Disagreement about the right behavior/interpretation of the spec


We have implemented several features which allow implementations to ease these compatibility issues.

### Configuration File

The runner can be supplied with a JSON configuration file which is
intended to allow for a per-stack mapping. This file currently takes
two directives:


* `DisabledTests`: A JSON map consisting of the pattern matching the
  tests to be disabled as the key and some sort of reason why it was
  disabled as the value. The key is used as a match against the test
  name. The value is ignored and is just used for documentation
  purposes so you can remember why you disabled a
  test. `-include-disabled` overrides this filter.

* `ErrorMap`: A JSON map from the internal errors the runner expects to
  the error strings that your implementation spits out. Generally
  you’ll need to map every error, but if you also provide the
 ` -loose-errors` flag, then every un-mapped error just gets mapped to
  the empty string and treated as if it matched every error the runner
  expects.


The `-shim-config` flag is used to provide the config file.


### Unimplemented Features
If the shim encounters some request from the runner that it knows it
can’t fulfill (e.g., a command line flag that it doesn’t recognize),
then it can exit with the special code `89`. Shims are recommended to
use this exit code on unknown command-line arguments.

The test runner interprets this as “unimplemented” and skips the
test. If run normally, this will cause the test runner to report that
the entire test suite failed. The `-allow-unimplemented` flag suppresses
this behavior and causes the test runner to ignore these tests for the
purpose of evaluating the success or failure of the test suite.


### Malloc Tests

The test runner can also be used to stress malloc failure
codepaths. If passed `-malloc-test=0`, the runner will run each test
repeatedly with an incrementing `MALLOC_NUMBER_TO_FAIL` environment
variable. The shim should then replace the malloc implementation with
one which fails at the specified number of calls. If there are not
enough calls to reach the number, the shim should fail with exit code
`88`. This signals to the runner that the test has completed.

See `crypto/test/malloc.cc` for an example malloc implementation.

Note these tests are slow and will hit Go's test timeout. Pass `-timeout 72h` to
avoid crashing after 10 minutes.


## Example: Running Against NSS

```
DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=~/dev/nss-dev/nss-sandbox/dist/Darwin15.6.0_64_DBG.OBJ/lib go test -shim-path ~/dev/nss-dev/nss-sandbox/dist/Darwin15.6.0_64_DBG.OBJ/bin/nss_bogo_shim -loose-errors -allow-unimplemented -shim-config ~/dev/nss-dev/nss-sandbox/nss/external_tests/nss_bogo_shim/config.json
```

Commit message:

Pass IPv6 vs IPv4 down to the shim
The runner currently tries to listen on IPv6 and then falls back to IPv4
on error. The shim does the same. If they pick different ones, this
breaks down.

Normally, fallback happens because the system doesn't have IPv6, and
both sides will make the same decision. But if binding to IPv6 fails for
other reasons, they may mismatch. We're observing them fail due to what
seems to port exhaustion. When this happens, shim and runner don't
agree on the same address family.

Instead, just tell the shim which address to connect to. This doesn't
fix the underlying port exhaustion problem, but it does seem to fix the
flakes. Although given we are still exhausting ports and falling back to
IPv4, it doesn't truly fix it. Later CLs will address port exhaustion by
using a single server port.

This changes the runner <-> shim protocol, but hopefully in a fairly
obvious way that others using BoGo can easily follow. It shouldn't break
our cross-version tests because we keep runner and shim at the same
versio there.

To avoid needing to make an incompatible change to the shim <->
handshaker protocol, which would impact our cross-version tests, this
introduces a mechanism for the shim omit flags when talking to the
handshaker. The handshaker doesn't need to know how to connect to the
runner.

Change-Id: Ic8bda9a854a115c206c05a659a2e34f544b844a6

ssl/test/PORTING.md, after:

# Porting to Other Implementations

## Introduction

This document provides an overview of the test runner and how to
integrate it with other stacks.  So far we have it working with
BoringSSL and some incomplete integrations with NSS and OpenSSL.

Note that supporting non-BoringSSL implementations is a work in
progress and interfaces may change in the future. Consumers should pin
to a particular revision rather than using BoringSSL’s master branch
directly. As we gain experience with other implementations, we hope to
make further improvements to portability, so please contact
davidben@google.com and ekr@rtfm.com if implementing a new shim.


## Integration Architecture

The test runner integrates with the TLS stack under test through a
“shim”: a command line program which encapsulates the stack. By
default, the shim points to the BoringSSL shim in the same source
tree, but any program can be supplied via the `-shim-path` flag. The
runner opens up a server socket and provides the shim with `-port` and
optional `-ipv6` arguments.

The shim should connect to loopback as a TCP client on the specified
port, using IPv6 if `-ipv6` is specified and IPv4 otherwise. This is
true even when the shim is speaking DTLS or acting as a TLS server.
For DTLS, there is a small framing layer that gives packet boundaries
over TCP. The shim can also pass a variety of command line arguments
which are used to configure the stack under test. These can be found at
`test_config.cc`.

The shim reports success by exiting with a `0` error code and failure by
reporting a non-zero error code and generally sending a textual error
value to stderr. Many of the tests expect specific error string (such
as `NO_SHARED_CIPHER`) that indicates what went wrong.


## Compatibility Issues

There are a number of situations in which the runner might succeed
with some tests and not others:

* Defects in the stack under test
* Features which haven’t yet been implemented
* Failure to implement one or more of the command line flags the runner uses with the shim
* Disagreement about the right behavior/interpretation of the spec


We have implemented several features which allow implementations to ease these compatibility issues.

### Configuration File

The runner can be supplied with a JSON configuration file which is
intended to allow for a per-stack mapping. This file currently takes
two directives:


* `DisabledTests`: A JSON map consisting of the pattern matching the
  tests to be disabled as the key and some sort of reason why it was
  disabled as the value. The key is used as a match against the test
  name. The value is ignored and is just used for documentation
  purposes so you can remember why you disabled a
  test. `-include-disabled` overrides this filter.

* `ErrorMap`: A JSON map from the internal errors the runner expects to
  the error strings that your implementation spits out. Generally
  you’ll need to map every error, but if you also provide the
 ` -loose-errors` flag, then every un-mapped error just gets mapped to
  the empty string and treated as if it matched every error the runner
  expects.


The `-shim-config` flag is used to provide the config file.


### Unimplemented Features
If the shim encounters some request from the runner that it knows it
can’t fulfill (e.g., a command line flag that it doesn’t recognize),
then it can exit with the special code `89`. Shims are recommended to
use this exit code on unknown command-line arguments.

The test runner interprets this as “unimplemented” and skips the
test. If run normally, this will cause the test runner to report that
the entire test suite failed. The `-allow-unimplemented` flag suppresses
this behavior and causes the test runner to ignore these tests for the
purpose of evaluating the success or failure of the test suite.


### Malloc Tests

The test runner can also be used to stress malloc failure
codepaths. If passed `-malloc-test=0`, the runner will run each test
repeatedly with an incrementing `MALLOC_NUMBER_TO_FAIL` environment
variable. The shim should then replace the malloc implementation with
one which fails at the specified number of calls. If there are not
enough calls to reach the number, the shim should fail with exit code
`88`. This signals to the runner that the test has completed.

See `crypto/test/malloc.cc` for an example malloc implementation.

Note these tests are slow and will hit Go's test timeout. Pass `-timeout 72h` to
avoid crashing after 10 minutes.


## Example: Running Against NSS

```
DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=~/dev/nss-dev/nss-sandbox/dist/Darwin15.6.0_64_DBG.OBJ/lib go test -shim-path ~/dev/nss-dev/nss-sandbox/dist/Darwin15.6.0_64_DBG.OBJ/bin/nss_bogo_shim -loose-errors -allow-unimplemented -shim-config ~/dev/nss-dev/nss-sandbox/nss/external_tests/nss_bogo_shim/config.json
```
